Tom Esch!

https://www.lifewire.com/how-to-use-system-restore-in-windows-2626131 - summarize in 1-3 paragraphs

Windows System Restore is a built-in tool for resetting one’s machine to a previous state. This feature is usually an essential step to restoring functionality for a machine. The process can take between 10 - 30 minutes, and different versions of Windows have this feature in different places.

Windows 10, 8.1, and 8
Control Panel → System and Security → System → System Protection → System Properties, System Restore
Next → Select Restore Point → Confirm and Finish
Looking at the programs, drives, and other parts of Windows that will be affected provides a report for troubleshooting and eliminating causes of machine issues.
Yes to continue and do not interrupt the process; doing this from Safe Mode may be the only way to reboot the machine properly with a reinstalled OS or state.
Numerous messages of activity for the restore begins and takes upwards of 15 minutes to complete--do not restart or turn off the machine at this time.
Sign-in to Windows and hope to see the confirmation of the system restore and your documents have not been affected.

Windows 7 or Vista
Start, All Programs, Accessories, System Tools
Click System Restore icon and click next on the opening dialogue screen
Choose restore point--ideally one just before the problems started--from manual and automatically stored states.
Next - Finish - Let go during the process (no restart or power down)
Login should say successful...

Windows XP
Start, All Programs, Accessories, System Tools
Click System Restore icon and select Restore My Computer to an Earlier Time
Choose a date and select available state
Next and confirm restore point
Wait
Log back in and hope to see a success sign

Important Notes
System restore only affects Windows, not personal files.
File recovery programs are for files gone missing/in need of restoration
System Restore can be accessed by rstrui.exe (a way to access it in Safe Mode or CMD line)
