Tom Esch

https://www.pearsonitcertification.com/articles/article.aspx?p=2260779&seqNum=5

Printer Friendly: https://www.pearsonitcertification.com/articles/printerfriendly/2260779 

Intro to IT Help Desk Support Roles

The Role - Makes sure IT is operational and available to users. Because we are “first,” and the only line of support for users, we are often the face (for better or for worse) of the organization if we are front-facing to users. In addition to front-of-house type support roles, behind the scenes will also require strong technical skills, customer-service-focused acumen, and a strong commitment to the job at hand.
First Line of Support to Users - Frequently, by helping customers resolve their issues, leaves many people happy. In the event you are unable to resolve the issue, the task remaining is to leave the customer satisfied with the experiencing moment.
Assessment of Issues and Solutions - Since users seek help to resolve issues, it is important to assess one’s approach to issues overall, let alone in IT. For example, if I found the problem solving exactly like solving a red-green based puzzle, my poor red-green color blindness would certainly evoke emotions of irritation. Instead, I noticed I enjoy the slog through grasping a technical problem because once I get it, it is mine. The possession of skills that solve problems has been a feature in my life since learning my first games, since rules define the system by which my opponents are contained. The better I know the rules and execute within the field of play, the better I am positioned to use the field like Lionel Messi on the soccer pitch.
Required Skillset - Cliche definition of human skills as separate “hard/soft” tasks, whereas I come from academia, so I find this continuation troubling. In short, what looks good for listing out line items to “show” prospective technicians the need to be “on” with people is something I have spent 15 years in vain teaching as an underfunded adjunct teaching history and political science in the “Social Sciences” liberal arts tradition. Whilst the listed skills are indeed essential, the terms hard and soft evoke meanings unintended, but very real. For an introduction: https://jasonlauritsen.com/2019/03/soft-skills-are-hard-we-need-to-stop-calling-them-soft-workhuman/ 